WEBSITE INGREDIENTS:

Typography
Colors
Images / Illustrations
Icons
Shadows
Border-Radius
Whitespace
Visual Hierarchy
User Experience
Components/Layout


DIFFERENT TYPES OF WEBSITE PERSONLAITIES:

1. Serious/Elegant:
For luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden
or pastel colors, and high quality images.

2. Minimalist/Simple:
Focus on the essential text content, using small or medium sized
sans-serif black text, lines and few images and icons.

3. Plain/Neutral:
Using Neutral and small typefaces and very structured layout.
common in big corporations.

4. Bold/Confident:
Big and Bold typography, use of big and bright colored blocks

5. Calm/Peaceful:
Products and services that care for customers, calming pastel
colors, soft serif headings and mathcing images/illustrations.

6. Startup/Upbeat:
Widley used in start ups, medium sized sans-serif typefaces,
light grey text and bgs and rounded elements.

7. PLayful/Fun:
Colorful and round designs, creative elements like hand drawn
icons, illustrations, animations and fun language.

TYPOGRAPHY:

Making the text simple, beautiful and more readable.

Rules:
1. Use only good and popular typefaces.
2. Only one typeface for page, if you want to increase limit it
to two.
3. Choose according to website personality.
4. Decide between a serif and sans-serif typefaces or other
common ones.
5. For font sizes use between 16 and 32 px. For headlines you
go bigger i.e, more than 50px and weight 600+. Weight should
not be less than 400 as it will be dificult to read.
6. For good reading exp for users;
- use les sthan 75 chars per lines.
- For normal sized text use a line height between 1.5 to 2,
for big text go below 1.5 as that is easily readable.
- Decrease letter spacing in headlines. Even in minus sometimes
- Experiment with all caps for short titles, Make them small
and bold and decrease letter spacing.
- Usually don't align or justify text.
- Don't center long text blocks, short blocks are fine.

2. COLORS:

Choose color that matches your website personality.
- RED: draws a lot of attention, symbolizes power,
passion and excitement.
- ORANGE: less aggressive, conveys happiness, cherfulness and
creativity.
- YELLOW: means joy,brightness and intelligence.
- GREEN: Harmony, nature, growth and health.
- BLUE: Peace, trustworthiness and professionalism.
- PURPLE: wealth, wisdom and magic.
- PINK: Romance, care and affection
- BROWN: Nature, durability and comfort
- BLACK: Power, elegance, minimalism, also grief and sorrow.
Black not the best color to choose.

Open colors is a nice website on github to choose colors.

ESTABLISH A COLOR SYSTEM:
We always need two colors in our color palette a main color and a grey color.
Or we can even add a third color accent color by using some tool that genartes palettes.
We can choose different tints (lighter) and shades(brighter) of main, accent or text colors.
Palleton.com and coolors can be used to genrate palettes.

HOW TO USE COLORS:
Main color can be seen in logos and it is must to use it on CTA
(Call To Action) button.

Accent colors are used as bg colors on important sections or some imp text
that will stand out from the rest of the content.

For dark colored bgs it is great to use a lighter version of the
same color for text.

Text should not be completely black or very light.

Use a tool to check contrast between text and bg colors.
It needs to at least 4.5:1 for normal text and 3:1 for
larger text. The more the better. Use coolors to check the
contrast.